# com_articles

## Introduction

This package is a reimplementation of com_content. It is part of the Moyo CCK and this is the place that stores articles.

**Note**: Please note that `com_articles` is currently at version 2.1.X. Version 1 is not supported anymore, since CCK
items are being stored in an altogether different way.

See [the Moyo web site](http://moyoweb.nl/) for more details.

## Requirements

* Joomla 2.5 or 3.X .
* Koowa 0.9 or 1.0 (as yet, Koowa 2 is not supported)
* PHP 5.3.10 or better
* Composer
* Moyo Components
    * com_cck
    * com_kutafuta
    * com_moyo
    * com_makundi
    * com_routes
    * com_taxonomy
    * com_terms
    * com_translations

## Installation

### Composer

Installation is done through composer. In your `composer.json` file, you should add the following lines to the repositories
section:

from this repository;

```json
{
    "name": "moyo/com_articles",
    "type": "vcs",
    "url": "https://github.com/kedweber/com_articles.git"
}
```

or from the purveyors of the software;

```json
{
    "name": "moyo/com_articles",
    "type": "vcs",
    "url": "https://github.com/moyoweb/com_articles.git"
}
```

The require section should contain the following line:

```json
    "moyo/com_articles": "2.*.*",
```

Afterwards, one just needs to run the command `composer update` from the root of your Joomla project. This will 
effectively create a `composer.lock` file which will contain the collected dependencies and the hash codes for 
each latest release \(depending on the require section's format\) for each particular repo. Should installations 
problems occur due to a bad ordering of the dependencies, one may need to go into the lock file and manualy change 
the order of the components. Running `composer update` again will again cause a reordering of the lock file, beware of 
this factor when running an update. Thereafter, you can run the command `composer install`. 

If you have not setup an alias to use the command composer, then you will need to replace the word composer in the previous commands with the 
commands with `php composer.phar` followed by the desired action \(eg. update or install\).

### jsymlinker

Another option is to run the [jsymlink script](https://github.com/derjoachim/moyo-git-tools) in the root folder, available via the original Moyo developer, Joachim van de Haterd's repository, under 
the [Moyo Git Tools](https://github.com/derjoachim/moyo-git-tools).

#### License jsymlinker

The joomlatools/installer plugin is free and open-source software licensed under the [GPLv3 license](https://github.com/derjoachim/joomla-composer/blob/develop/gplv3-license).


## Usage

### Administrator backend

Since `com_articles` is part of the Moyo CCK, you can *not* use the content menu in the admin backend of Joomla. Instead,
go to 'Components >> Articles'. The articles view looks like the familiar com_content view, yet cleaner. Most notable is
the translations column that displays the translation status per language.

The article form is a major refactor of the `com_content` version. The screen is divided into five sections:

* **Content**
    * **Title**: self-explanatory
    * **Subtitle**: self-explanatory
    * **Slug**: autogenerated. Useful for routing.
    * **Fields**: Contains a select2-box of possible fieldsets for `com_articles`. Please note that form will auto-update
    on changing this value, which will destroy any current data. Use with care
* **Details**: Publish dates as per Joomla 3.X.
    * **Published**: Sets publishing status.
    * **Translated**: Sets translation status.
* **Meta**: Metadata as per meta-tags in HTML
    * **Description**: Sets the value for the meta `name="description"` tag.
    * **Keywords**: Sets the value for the meta `name="keywords"` tag.
* **Relations**: Sets predefined relations with other Moyo CCK items. These may vary per project.
    * **Category**: Sets the `com_makundi` category.
    * **Tags**: Set the `com_terms` tags.
    * **Regions**: Sets regions for which an article is relevant. Makes it easier to filter by region.
    * **Topics**: Sets topics for which an article is relevant. Makes it easier to filter by topic.
    * **Further reading**: Sets an article-article relation.
* **Fields**: Contains all fieldset-specific fields.

### Frontend

In the frontend, there are three views:

* **Articles** Shows an article list as per the given parameters. As of the time of writing, JSON, HTML and RSS are supported.
* **Article** Shows a single article as per its fieldset.
* **Frontpage** Frontpage view for articles.

### Modules

There is a module that displays an article as a Joomla! module. You can add it by choosing 'Articles' as module type.
Choose the article and you are set.

## Notes

* In order to make articles translatable, you must install the `com_translations` component.
* The stock search plugin does not work for our CCK. Instead, install `com_kutafuta`.
* Articles are categorized through `com_makundi` and `com_taxonomy`. The stock `com_categories` is not compatible.
* Joomla routing is less than complete. Therefore, `com_routes` is an explicit requirement for `com_articles` to work.
